# Milestone Project 2 for Fullstack Web Developer Course

This website displays a graphical breakdown of Care Quality Commision (CQC) data from the United Kingdom.
 
## UX
 
My initial idea for this project was a series of 5 graphs with 2 being along the top and 3 along the bottom of the screen, however after altering the CQC data, the amount of columns left with data made it impractical to follow this initial design. Following on from this I decided on one dynamic chart, that can change to show the majority of possible combinations. Because by default the d3 charting library is not responsive, I decided to actually create a column chart on mobile devices, this contains the same information as the initial bar chart, but is better adapted for mobile views.

For the color scheme, I decided to use a third party site for the colors, since the main framework used in this project is bootstrap 4.

### User stories

1) I want to see all cqc records within my local council (Cambridgeshire)
2) I am a user who wants to see how many ambulance organisations are within the United Kingdom
3) I am a user who wants to see a regional breakdown of services.

## Features

In this section, you should go over the different parts of your project, and describe each in a sentence or so.
 
### Existing Features
- Feature 1 - allows users X to achieve Y, by having them fill out Z
- ...

For some/all of your features, you may choose to reference the specific project files that implement them, although this is entirely optional.

In addition, you may also use this section to discuss plans for additional features to be implemented in the future:

### Features Left to Implement
- Another feature idea

## Technologies Used

In this section, you should mention all of the languages, frameworks, libraries, and any other tools that you have used to construct this project. For each, provide its name, a link to its official site and a short sentence of why it was used.

- [HTML5](https://www.w3.org/standards/webdesign/htmlcss)
    - **HTML5** is the basic building language of all websites, it allows for structure 
- [CSS3](https://www.w3.org/standards/webdesign/htmlcss#whatcss)
    - **CSS 3** is used to describe web pages, via color, font and other styling. In the project it is used for styling the elements on the page.
- [JQuery](https://jquery.com)
    - The project uses **JQuery** to simplify DOM manipulation.
- [Bootstrap v3.3](https://getbootstrap.com/docs/3.3/)
    - The project uses **Bootstrap** for the navbar functionality, along with making the images responsive and responsive visibility classes. In addtion it provides the 'grid' functionality for layout purposes.
- [SASS](http://sass-lang.com/) - **SASS** was used to add extra functionality to CSS, it allows for nested statements to be used, which in turn made the files easier to read.


## Testing

### Automated Testing

I have performed automated testing on the Utils.js file, the results can be see [here](https://lowe54.github.io/milestone2_project/tests?random=false)

The table below explains what each of the tests checked for

| Test Number 	| Sentence within the tests                                                            	| What is it testing for?                                                                                        	|
|-------------	|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------	|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------	|
| 1           	| Contains 2 functions                                                                 	| Checks to see if the 2 functions are defined                                                                   	|
| 2           	| If the current height is 42 and the next elements height is  40, it should return 42 	| Checks the evaluator to see if it returns the correct number, in this case 42                                  	|
| 3           	| If the current height is 18 and the next elements height is  28, it should return 28 	| Checks the evaluator to see if it returns the correct number, in this case 28                                  	|
| 4           	| Should have a string                                                                 	| Checks to see if the 'string' variable has a typeOf 'string'                                                   	|
| 5           	| that should contain "abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz"                                     	| Checks the content of the string to confirm that it contains the alphabet                                      	|
| 6           	| and should then split this into an array which should exist                          	| Checks to see if the array that should be generated by '.split('')' exists                                     	|
| 7           	| and have a length of 26                                                              	| Checks to confirm the length of the array, anything other than 26 and it does not contain the correct alphabet 	|

In this section, you need to convince the assessor that you have conducted enough testing to legitimately believe that the site works well. Essentially, in this part you will want to go over all of your user stories from the UX section and ensure that they all work as intended, with the project providing an easy and straightforward way for the users to achieve their goals.

Whenever it is feasible, prefer to automate your tests, and if you've done so, provide a brief explanation of your approach, link to the test file(s) and explain how to run them.

For any scenarios that have not been automated, test the user stories manually and provide as much detail as is relevant. A particularly useful form for describing your testing process is via scenarios, such as:

1. Contact form:
    1. Go to the "Contact Us" page
    2. Try to submit the empty form and verify that an error message about the required fields appears
    3. Try to submit the form with an invalid email address and verify that a relevant error message appears
    4. Try to submit the form with all inputs valid and verify that a success message appears.

In addition, you should mention in this section how your project looks and works on different browsers and screen sizes.

You should also mention in this section any interesting bugs or problems you discovered during your testing, even if you haven't addressed them yet.

If this section grows too long, you may want to split it off into a separate file and link to it from here.

## Deployment

This section should describe the process you went through to deploy the project to a hosting platform (e.g. GitHub Pages or Heroku).

In particular, you should provide all details of the differences between the deployed version and the development version, if any, including:
- Different values for environment variables (Heroku Config Vars)?
- Different configuration files?
- Separate git branch?

The site is available to view via [here](https://lowe54.github.io/milestone2_project/)

The following steps were made in order to deploy the project 
### Github Deployment
- In a terminal, the git repository was initiated via the `git init` command
- The repository was linked to a .git file on github via
    - `git remote add origin https://github.com/Lowe54/milestone2_project.git`
    - `git push -u origin master`
    
- After each change, the following commands were used to push the changes to the git repository
    - `git add *` - This adds all changed files to staging
    - `git commit -m "MESSAGE HERE"` - Commits the work with a brief message as to what has changed
    - `git push` - This pushes the work to the git repository, after entering your github username and password


### Github Cloning
- In order to clone the github repository, type the following command in a terminal
    - `git clone https://github.com/Lowe54/milestone2_project`
- If you wish to change the default directory to where the project is checked out to, use the following command 
    - `git clone https://github.com/Lowe54/milestone2_project *FolderName*`

### Style Changing

The styles of this site are in SASS (.scss) format, in order to change the styles you will need to enter the following command into a terminal.

If you get an `command not recognised` error, please follow the steps [here](http://sass-lang.com/documentation/file.SASS_REFERENCE.html#using_sass)

`sass --watch assets-src/scss/:assets/css`

## Credits

### Content
- The text for section Y was copied from the [Wikipedia article Z](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Z)

- The color scheme was aquired from 'bootswatch', which is a free color scheme repository for bootstrap [Color theme 'Minty'](https://bootswatch.com/minty/)

### Media
- The photos used in this site were obtained from ...

### Acknowledgements

- I received inspiration for this project from X